PROJECT FINAL REPORT
MIT 593-5
Capstone Project
Registration Number
PROJECT TITLE
Name of the Degree Program
Department of Computer Science and Informatics
Faculty of Applied Sciences
Uva Wellassa University of Sri Lanka
2026
Personal Details:
Name with initials:
Registration Number:
Email:
Contact Number:
Address:
Supervisor Details:
Name of the Supervisor E-mail
Name of the Co-supervisor E-mail Contact Number
(add the table only it is applicable)
Descriptive General Guidelines
Your project report must be prepared according to the following instructions. This
includes general guidelines, assembling of pre-pages, and structuring of the body of the
text.
1. General guidelines
• Paper: The project report should be printed on good quality A4 size paper, on a single
side.
• Lettering: Times New Roman. Size will change as per chapters/sections, etc.
• Spacing: The line spacing should be 1.5. Keep a one-line spacing between paragraphs.
• Margins: Left - 1.5 inches
Top, bottom, and right, 1 inch.
• Tables and Figures: All Tables and Figures must be named with captions, and cited
inside the text.
• Reference and citations: Use ACM style referencing. The list of Reference must be
arranged in citied order, and numbered in square brackets. The corresponding number of
a reference must be used to cite the particular work inside the text
(https://www.acm.org/publications/authors/reference-formatting). All items in list of reference
must be cited inside the text. See the sample for reference and citations (Appendix A).
• Cover page (a sample is given): Print the following information by leaving appropriate
line spacing o Title of the report with the course code (20pt, centered, at the top of the
page)
o Registration Number (20pt, centered, in the middle of the page) o Title of the
Project (20pt, bold, centered, in the middle of the page)
o Degree Program, and date (20pt, centered, at the bottom of the page)
• Student details and the supervisor details: refer sample
• Page numbering: All page numbers must be centered at the bottom of each page.
Roman numbering must be used for pre-pages. No page numbers for the title page.
Arabic numbering must be used for the body of the project report.
2. Assembling of Pre-pages
• The pre-pages headings must be centered. Use the Roman numbers to number the
prepages and the Appendixes.
• Group and supervisor details
• Declaration: Type the information given in the sample below (Appendix B).
• Dedication: (Optional, but nice to have it)
• Acknowledgements: Thanks to those who (supervisor, friends, parents) helped
you.
• Abstract: This should be one-page description that comprises of problem that you address
your approach (users, input, output, and process), analysis & design, implementation,
evaluation and conclusion. Write more about your work. Do not use citations, abbreviations
and further works in an abstract.
• Table of Contents
Here you should list headings of chapters/sections/subsections with page numbers.
• List of Figures/Tables
Add the list of Figures/Tables captions followed by names, with page numbers.
1. Structuring of body of the text
The report must be structured with reference to the following chapters. Depending on the project
the structure may slightly change. Note that the names of the headings given below are too generic
and if you need rename them to reflect about your project (Do not change chapters’ title).
• All headings must be numbered. Do not use any decorations on headings.
• Style for the he chapter title: Heading 1, 18pt, bold, Times New Roman.
• Style for subsequent heading: Heading 2, 16pt, bold, Times New Roman • Style for
subsections heading: subtitle, 14pt, bold, Times New Roman
• Body of the text in must be in 12pt justified.
Table of Content Chapter 1: Introduction
1. Project Title
2. Project Description - you should give brief overview of the project. This may have two
sections.
3. Background and Motivation - you should describe the background with the support of
literature. Explain what makes you motivated to do the project. This section should have
citations, refer to the items in the list of references.
4. Problem in Brief - describe the problem in the existing system to be addressed
5. Proposed Solution
6. Project Aim and Objectives
7. Significance of the study – Describe the significance of your proposed system by
comparing the other existing systems
Chapter 2: Methodology
1. Introduction - The process you are following through the entire software life cycle (the way
you gathered requirements, the way you are doing the development of the system, etc)
2. Requirements Identification
a. Functional and Non-functional requirements (Briefly mentioned the requirements),
Describe how you have done the implementation so far by elaborating the necessary
information
b. User roles
c. User levels (if applicable)
d. System requirements (Hardware / Software) - (Describe why you select or need the
software and hardware tool/technologies with justification)
3. System Analysis and design: (Class Diagram, ER Diagram, Use case Diagram), if there are
additional diagrams attach them as Appendixes.
4. Technology Adapted - System requirements (Hardware / Software) – (Describe why you
select or need the software and hardware tool/technologies with justification)
Chapter 3: Implementation
Here you provide implementation details of each module that is stated in the design diagram. Remember to
maintain the consistency between design and the implementation sections. In describing the
implementation, you may state about flowcharts, algorithms, pseudo codes, code segments as per each
module in the design. All the diagrams or pictures should be defined as figures or listings and cite inside
the text. Extra details of implementations (e.g. selected source codes, screenshots) should go to an
Appendix.
Chapter 4: Testing and Evaluation
Report on how you test and evaluate the implemented solution to see whether objectives have been
achieved. Experimental design, selection of participants, interview techniques, design of questionnaire
(optional) must be stated here. Here you should also present the results from the test and evaluation in
graphs/charts/tables, etc. Additional details about the evaluation may go as an appendix (i.e. test cases
written).
Chapter 5: Conclusion
1. Conclusion
2. Project Plan - Describe the project plans and include the Gantt Chart
3. Future Work - (mention the functionalities to be done by each individual)
References
Use ACM reference style. The list of Reference must be arranged in Cited order, and numbered in square
brackets
ACM Reference style https://www.acm.org/publications/authors/reference-formatting
Appendixes
Any detailed description, user manual, selected important source codes; set of data, Images of GUI
(Screenshots) could be included under this. Appendixes must be named in alphabetical order (Appendix A,
Appendix B…), and also give a name for each appendix.
Appendix A - Sample for Reference and citations
Inside the body of the text, you should refer to items in the list of reference in the following
manner (using square brackets). This is a process of citing of others work.
Eg : ………………….. Hand crafted algorithms, Mathematical or statistical models, Computer
vision and artificial intelligence techniques have been used to detect cephalometric landmarks
[2]. It is evident from the literature that neural network approach can introduce very high level of
autonomy and accuracy in modeling real world problems [2,3]. For example neural computation
in medicine for perspectives and prospects has implemented successfully [3-8]. In order to cite
inside the text in the above manner, the list of reference must be arranged as follows. Note that
this list is prepared in accordance with the alphabetical order of names of authors. The list of
reference appears after the chapter on conclusion and further work.
Appendix B - Sample for Declaration page
We declare that this project report is out own work and has not been submitted in any form for
another degree or diploma at any university or other institution of tertiary education. Information
derived from the published or unpublished work of others has been acknowledged in the text and
a list of references is given.
Name of student(s) ………………………………………
Signature of student(s) & Date
Supervised by
Name of Supervisor(s) ………………………………………
Signature of Supervisor(s)
Date
Reference
[1] David Kosiur. 2001. Understanding Policy-Based Networking (2nd. ed.). Wiley, New York, NY.
[2] Patricia S. Abril and Robert Plant. 2007. The patent holder's dilemma: Buy, sell, or troll? Commun.
ACM 50, 1 (Jan. 2007), 36-44. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1145/1188913.1188915
[3] Sarah Cohen, Werner Nutt, and Yehoshua Sagic. 2007. Deciding equivalences among conjunctive
aggregate queries. J. ACM 54, 2, Article 5 (April 2007), 50 pages. DOI:
https://doi.org/10.1145/1219092.1219093